Micro & Macro Economics 
Microeconomics: 
For example: College tuition is a good example of a microeconomic topic, 
Healthcare policy debate, The housing boom and bust, Income distribution(top1%) 

Macro Economics: 
For examples: Recession of 2007-09 and not so great recovery for US economy, 
Economic growth of China vs Africa , Monetary policy and inflation in the US, 
Fiscal debate in the US, The Euro crisis, The role of the IMF in the world economy,  

GDP (Gross Domestic Product): 
GDP is the total market value of all final goods and services produced in a country in a given year. 

If you look at the projections of the Congressional Budget Office either in 2009 or more 
recently, it's very similar. If we ever got to that point in the US those high debt levels 
they'd be so high we couldn't possibly service them. We would have to default. 
US is not US anymore. So this is a big issue the macroeconomists are worried about. 

The massive financial crisis in US and other parts of the world 2008-09, 
Which had to do with behavior of financial firms, that's kind of a microeconomic issue. 
But the fact that it spread to the entire economy and the entire world, 
That's a macroeconomic issue. 
It's also had to with the Federal Reserve which can conclude as macroeconomic issue. 

The Central Idia of Economics: 
Choice, Scarcity,Interaction: 

Economics Mantra: 
People make choices with scarce resources and then they interact with other people in markets 
in other places when they make those choices. 
The idea of making choice with scarcity gives rise to the concept of opportunity cost. 

Tiger Woods: He's sophomore and he learned about the opportunity cost so well that he dropped out of Stanford.
And joined the pro golf tour, recognizing how significant the opportunity cost was of staying in school. 

Opportunity Cost: Mark Zuckerberg, Steve Jobs, Bill Gates, Warren Buffet dropped out of school. 

But there's many other people around these table who made a different choice. 
Some like, Eric Schmidt, CEO of Google, he stayed in school. He graduated college. 

Carol Bartz who ran Yahoo for a number of years, she went to college, worked as cocktail waitress,
to pay for her tuition. So there's a wide variety of choices that people make. 

Opportunity cost are really central for making decisions. 

The other part of the mantra is that interacting with markets. 
And that really has to do with trading transactions of goods and services with other people. 
And consumers do that, producers do that, governments do that. 
It's a very enormous benefit, a gain we call it and you can see it in everyday life. 

Gains from Trade:
Producer Decisions: 
a)Specialization ( a concentration of production efforts on a single specific task )
b)Division of Labor (the division of production into various parts in which different groups of worker specialize)
c)Comparative Advantage (a situation in which person or group can produce one good at a lower opportunity cost than another person or group)

Economic Decisions and The Role of Government 5 main components:
a) Predictable policy framework( the government needs to be predictable in its decisions )
b) Rule of Law(property rights need to be clearly defined and enforced)
c) Reliance on market economy (Freely determined prices) 
d) Good Incentives (government needs to provide good incentives for economic activity, such as patents to encourage innovation)
e) Specific Role of Government( market failures, public goods, externalities, goverment failure too)  

